Sequencer24/Seq24 Roadmap
Chris Ahlstrom
2015-07-23 to 2015-09-01

The starting point for the Sequencer24 project is version
0.9.2 of seq24.  Sequencer24 starts with version 0.9.3.

The following changes are planned ('x' means it is done, 'y' means it is
in progress, and 'z' means it will be moved to a later branch):

x  -  Create a Git project out of the existing Seq24 files: sequencer24
x  -  Branch off to a permanent "Legacy" branch:
   x  -  Add this ROADMAP file to the legacy branch.
   x  -  Make any changes needed to get the code to build and running in the
         old way.  Hopefully, no changes will be needed.
   x  -  Tag the legacy branch and record the tag in this ROADMAP:
         Legacy commit #: 3ab98816b494a5b0a8aedd04e7fd7f6fe8c3e96f
         Legacy tag name: "v0.9.2"
x  -  Branch off to a "Debian" branch:
   x  -  Add the Debian files obtained from Debian.org, and verify that
         a Debian package could be made.
   x  -  Merge "Debian" back into the main trunk.
x  -  Branch off to a "Catchup" branch:
   x  -  Add the LASH fixes found on GitHub, and verify functionality.
   x  -  Other easy fixes found anywhere?
   x  -  Merge "Catchup" back into the main trunk.
   x  -  Tagged as "Catchup", commit 8ea385884b7629424243b347f645b7d3720a3857.
x  -  Branch off to a "Packaging" branch:
   x  -  Add a bootstrap script and its helper scripts.
   x  -  Update configure.in to configure.ac and add our standard features
         for better-tailored builds.
   x  -  Add a pack script.
   x  -  Add our licensing (for clarification)
   x  -  Fix and verify any Debian packaging issues that crop up.
   x  -  Merge "Packaging" back into the main trunk.
x  -  Branch off to a "Gtkmm-3" branch.
   x  -  Update the GUI, document the changes, and verify functionality.
   x  -  Merge "Gtkmm-3" back into the main trunk.
   x  -  WARNING:  We found later that we accidentally left some GTKMM-2.4
         references in configure.ac.  We are going to go back to 2.4 and
         work this out, eventually, in a future "GtkmmUpgrade" branch, to be
         determined.
x  -  Branch off to a "Document" branch:
   x  -  Fall back to Gtkmm-2.4!!!
   x  -  Document each module to a limited extent.
   x  -  Simplify and normalize the #include files to speed up builds and
         make the actual module arrangement easier to grok.
   x  -  Get an idea of the design, and document it.  Look for ways
         to collect common code into base classes.
   x  -  Make the code a bit cleaner, such as eliminating "using namespace"
         directives, eliminating dead variables, etc.
   x  -  Generate Doxygen documentation.
   x  -  Merge "Document" back into the main trunk.
xz -  Branch off to a "Fixes" branch to fix these issues:
   x  -  Ignore updating patterns/sequences that are empty (i.e. just a
         track-name) during playback.  This is done, playing of empty
         sequences will be ignored, as is updating the progress bar.  Can
         be disabled at configure/build time; see the mainwid and
         perfnames modules, and configure.ac.
   x  -  Add more musical scales.  Added harmonic minor, melodic minor, and
         C whole tone scales.
   x  -  Ctrl-E in main window brings up Song Editor, but also toggles the
         sequence controlled by key "e".
   x  -  Write the proprietary section of Seq24 in a more MIDI-compliant
         format (i.e. as a track) so that applications like midicvt can
         read it; add a --legacy option to write the MIDI file in the old
         format.
   x  -  Make a --lash/--no-lash option, for when LASH support is enabled
         in the build configuration.
   x  -  Lock the size of the Patterns Panel (expanding it just shows more
         grey, and it resizes horizontally very slowly).
   yx -  Fix issue where doing nothing causes a save prompt upon exit.
         This happens only if the Song Editor is opened.  Partly fixed,
         but needs more verification.  Now disabled; also need prompt when
         new notes and patterns are edited.  A big task, really.  Better
         safe than sorry.
   z  -  Neither the Song Editor nor the Pattern Editor scroll to the next page
         when the progress bar moves off the right.
   z  -  The std::list the Seq24 uses is fast, but it does not allow for
         direct access to list elements, and the push/pop paradigm causes
         a reversal of some events (program change) that makes it impossible
         to reliably diff the MIDI files that result.
   z  -  Reading a MIDI file is very slow in debug mode, but does not seem to
         be due to mutex locking.  It seems to be due to the std::list
         operations; see contrib/profile.txt, obtained by building with
         gprof support.
   x  -  Replace calls to lock()/unlock() with an automutex instance for
         better safety, less code.
   z  -  Opening a pattern edit while playback is happening yields
         issues in keeping the progress line up-to-date.
   yz -  More friendliness for two-button mice.  Currently, there is an
         option to hold the Mod4 (Super or Windows) key when releasing a
         right-click, to allow adding notes to continue anyway, until
         an unadorned right click is made.  Also added to the options
         file, but not yet a GUI-editable item.  Also reveals that
         we need to set-dirty when adding notes to a sequence.
x  -  Fixed in "master" branch:
   x  -  Weird stuff with clicking sequence 0 versus other sequences.
         Was due to incorrect validation in seqmenu::current_sequence().
      -  Sometimes the editing of event values in the event data section
         will not work. The workaround is to do a Ctrl-A, and the click in
         the roll to deselect the selection; that makes the event value
         editing work again.
      -  The pattern right-click Cut menu entry does not seem to work.
         The loop or pattern remains in place.  Is this actually meant to
         cut selected events?
      -  While one is typing in the name of the set in this field, the
         keystrokes will affect the panel window, causing playback to
         start and pattern boxes to be toggled!
      -  While one is typing in the number of the set in the Set number field,
         the keystrokes will affect the panel window, causing playback to
         start and pattern boxes to be toggled!
   y  -  Read the configuration information from
         ~/.config/sequencer24/sequencer24rc and
         ~/.config/sequencer24/sequencer24usr, unless they are not
         found, or the --legacy option is in force.  Write to them as
         well, unless the --legacy option is in force.  Done, but
         currently kind of Linux-specific.
   -  Branch off to a "Library" branch:
      -  Break out non-GUI functionality into libsequencer24.
      -  Unit test each element as appropriate using xpc-suite
         functionality.
      -  Add some base classes and additional member functions for common
         functionality:
         -  Gtk::Drawable-derived base class
         -  Handle Windows vs. Linux code more cleanly.
            -  Windows/Linux mastermidibus bases class
            -  Windows/Linux midibus bases class
         -  An autolock object to simplify many of the locked functions.
      -  Enhance documentation and recreate it.
      -  Rebuild application using library code.
      -  Verify functionality.
      -  Merge "Library" back into the main trunk.
   -  Create a separate "sequencer24-doc" project and update the
      documentation to reflect the name changes and new project.
   -  Branch off to an "Enhancements" branch:
      -  TO BE DETERMINED.

Eventually, there will be a few features and fixes to try to add:

   -  A MIDI event text pane to display (and later edit) all MIDI events.
   -  Speed up the horizontal resize on the Song/Performance Editor.
   -  Make it possible to use Alt or Ctrl plus a sequence-toggling
      key to bring up an edit dialog for that sequence.
   -  Get the Song editor's "Increase size of grid" button working.
      Also document it.

There's actually not a lot to improve though, in Seq24 functionality, except
to keep the project active and living.  A very nice project!

Git Graph:

o Origin.
   o  Legacy
      o  ROADMAP
      o  Build and verify
      o  Tag and record the tag
   o  Debian
      o  Debian directory
      o  Build, build deb and verify
   o  Catchup
      o  LASH fixes
      o  Other fixes
      o  Build, build deb and verify
   o  Packaging
      o  bootstrap
      o  pack
      o  Build, build deb and verify
   o  Gtkmm-3
      o  GUI update
      o  Update-related comments
      o  Build, build deb and verify
   o  Document
      o  Add module comments
      o  Generate Doxygen design documentation
      o  Build, build deb and verify
   o  Library
      o  Refactor to a library
      o  Build using library
      o  Build, build deb and verify
   o  Enhancements
      o  TBD

Old dependencies:

   awk
   librt (POSIX.1b Realtime Library)
   libgtkmm-2.4
   libsigc++-2.0
   libasound
   JACK
   lash-1.0

# vim: sw=4 ts=4 wm=8 et ft=sh
